
= Why start a new video player?

Well, vpd is not really a video player. Instead, it uses well established and awesome vlc to render the videos. However,
vlc lacks a remote capable daemon mode, and that's vpd's job!

= Why did you start this project?

I started this project when I realized that I cannot find a suitable media center capable of playing nicely with my
HiFiBerry and with the Raspberry PI B+'s video decoding hardware at the same time. vlc actually can do that but it's
remote capabilities are somewhat limited. Besides, I recently switched to mpd and find it's capabilities really awesome.
I wanted the same for my video streams and files.

= What's the pilosophy of the vpd project?

VPD aims to follow the Unix philosophy, so it'll stay simple and will to one single job - orchestrate system tools to play videos on your dedicated hardware. It'll allow you to do that in the simplest manner, using simple command-line tools or smartphone remotes. So you'll never see no stinking "up/down" remote control! I think that kind of remote control is simply not suited for the task of remote controlling something. It was invented at the ages where embedded systems were very expensive to produce. At that time we used simple logic circuits to control the state of some analog circuitry which was the TV-set. Why reproduce that kind of remote control today when a simple Raspberry PI had more power than my first PC and it successfully replaced my TV-set? Remember, we like new technologies and keeping the old fashioned remote with it's dumb up/dow/left/right only buttons is simply unacceptable.

= Why did you use raspbian wheezy?

The sound of my Raspberry PI B+ is quite distorted, especially at low volumes. Therefore, I discovered and bought the HiFiBerry sound card and it's amazing sound. At the time of this writing, it works correctly, out-of-the-box only on raspbian. So, event if I'm an Archlinux addict, I was forced to stay with Raspbian wheezy and it's rather old packages. The installation process in this platform is rather long, but it's worth the effort, in my opinion. And soon the jessie version will be out and all these problems will be gone.

